MWI: Add Bound Keypair Joining admin and reference guide (#56824)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/reference/machine-id/bound-keypair.mdx

---
title: Bound Keypair Joining Reference
description: "Bound Keypair Joining: Reference and admin guide"
---

Bound Keypair is a join method designed to provide the best features of

> [delegated join methods][s-vs-d] join methods - like AWS, GCP, or Azure - but in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[delegated join methods][s-vs-d] - like the AWS, GCP, and Azure join methods - but in
```

on-prem or otherwise unsupported environments where no external verification is
available.

Specifically, this join method:
- Does not require dedicated TPM hardware or external identity attestation
- Does not require long-lived shared secrets
- Allows for limited automatic recovery if certificates expire
- Allows recovery restrictions to be relaxed or lifted to accommodate different
  use cases and deployment scenarios
- Ensures failed bots can be recovered without client-side intervention in most
  cases

<Admonition type="tip" title="Preview Note">
Bound Keypair Joining is available in v18.1.0 and is intended to replace `token`
joining as the default recommended join method in Teleport v19.0.0.
</Admonition>

> 

Reviewer: I would describe the scope of this guide here. This is especially important since the guide includes multiple purposes in a single document—it might be difficult for readers to determine whether this guide is right for them.
